mind your decisions I'm presh tal Walker
in a square with a side length of one
construct two quarter circles and then
inscribe a circle between the quarter
circles the challenge is to solve for
the circles radius
I think Pradeep a bar for the suggestion
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
we'll get started by drawing lines
between the corner of the square and the
tangent point on the inscribed circle
the first thing we'll do is we'll prove
that this intersection point all is the
center of the circle we'll get started
by considering one quarter circle
consider the tangent point and the
tangent line the perpendicular to this
tangent line will pass through the
center of the quarter circle point a and
it will pass through the center of the
inscribed circle
however we don't know the exact location
of O now let's consider the other
quarter circle we'll do a similar
construction we have the tangent line
and then be perpendicular to the tangent
line this will pass through the center
of the quarter circle which is the
corner of the square and then it will
also pass through the center of the
inscribed circle oh if we put these
observations together the intersection
point of these two lines must contain
the center all and therefore this is the
center of the inscribed circle now let's
focus on this quarter circle the square
has a side length of one which means the
radius of this quarter circle is equal
to one
suppose the inscribed circle has a
radius equal to R this means the
distance between the two centers is 1
minus R we then drop a perpendicular
which will be a radius of the inscribed
circle and this will bisect the side of
the square into two lengths of 0.5 we
thus have the following right triangle
and we can use the Gogu theorem 0.5
squared plus R squared is equal to the
quantity 1 minus R squared well then do
some simplifying algebra the R squares
cancel out and then we can routinely
solve for R we carefully calculate that
R is equal to 0.375 and that's equal to
3 over 8 I think this is a fun little
problem thanks for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube as always thanks for watching
and thanks for your support
[Music]
you